Back to [[Class Notes]]
# Cloud Computing, Server Utilization, & the Environment

[Link to blog](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/cloud-computing-server-utilization-the-environment/)

In the Greenpeace report on data center power consumption, it was unusual that they did not feature energy conversation as a primary evaluation criteria... hmm.. 

Carbon emissions are driven by three items - the number of servers running, the total energy required to power each server and the carbon intensity of the energy sources used to power these servers. *Using fewer servers and powering them more efficiently are at least as important to reducing the carbon impact of a company's data center as it's power mix*

	Cloud engineers need to also think about energy consumption even if not as the main criteria 

Impact of using AWS instead of own data centers:
	On average, AWS customers use 77% fewer servers, 84% less power, and utilize a 28% cleaner power mix, for a total reduction in carbon emissions of 88% from using the AWS [Cloud](https://aws.amazon.com/) instead of operating their own data centers.

### How AWS let's customers consume 77% Fewer Servers ? 

When using on-prem data centers, companies usually have excess server capacity to ensure applications don't fail when using peak loads. This leads to fairly low server utilization rates. Avg. server utilization rate ~ 20%.

In contrast large-scale cloud infra operators have a much larger pool of customers and applications allowing them to smooth out peaks and run at much higher overall utilization levels. 

In addition innovations such as the  EC2 [[Spot instances]] help drive utilization higher and lead to additional efficiency improvements. 

### Cloud customers consume 84% less power

A measure of infrastructure efficiency is Power Usage Effectiveness ( PUE ). This is calculated by the power required for the critical operations / total power delivered to the data center. 

Large-scale cloud providers run at scale and invest deeply in efficiency since, at scale, these investments can have real and rapid paybacks.

Hence lesser number of servers and a much more efficient Power Usage leads to a cumulative of 84% reduction in amount of power usage. 

This leads to lesser carbon emissions as well which is good for the environment. 


