
### Dependency management
The problem with node is that no one looks at the libraries that get pulled into node modules. In the real world, if someone deletes a library from npm your application breaks. 

One way to mitigate this is mirror them and store them as a back up. Before you use a library, try to check if it really needed.

### Config
Don't hardcode stuff in your application. It runs differently on your laptop and other systems. Everything that will vary across machines / environments, must be kept separately in a config file. 

One thing is that we cannot test for configurations, incase we have a default password that works fine in local but might fail in prod. Keep all hardcoded values outside the application and not within. 

### Backing services
Our application works based on other applications, if one fails, the others start falling down. Example the health check, if we have third party dependencies, the health check end point can make a quick call to everything to check. 

### Build, release, run

### Processes
Whenever possible make the app stateless, this means, keeping everything out of memory. Execute the app as one or more stateless processes. If not it is not possible to horizontally scale. 

Databases, file storage, and state storage should be a separate system. If our machine goes away it should not matter. 

### Port Binding
Export services via port binding. Eg 3000, 5000, 8080. 
Question: why do applications pick certain ports to run , what is the reasoning between selecting port numbers. 

Ports that are below 1024, are kept aside for super users, if we run a service on those ports, and incase anyone has access to it, they can run commands as a super user and exploit the machine. 

These special ports are called Privileged port. We don't want to run services on this port whenever possible.

### Disposability
Maximize robustness with fast startup and graceful shutdown. Bigger applications have a slower start up time. Microservices architecture help us keep separate smaller applications that are smaller and can be better maintained and isolate issues. 

### Logs
Treat logs as event streams. This is really important when working on the cloud. 

### Admin processes

