
### Why Test?

Tests reduce the cost of making code changes ? 
When we have tests, we can run the tests and see if anything broke. This gives us confidence when we deliver code. 

### Testing

Left shift strategy : do as much testing earlier in the process as possible so that fewer bugs can propagate to the higher environments. 

#### Unit tests

- Should not require access to any external systems
- All external services are mocked 
- We don't test end to end workflow, we just test the small functionality of that
- Takes time and maintenance
- Incorrect tests let bugs go through 

Unit tests serve a purpose, but are they enough ? Back in those days when everything was self hosted and monolithic, unit tests had a lot of value. But these days when lot of systems interact, we need to test those interactions. 

### Integration tests

- Int tests can verify that the interaction bet multiple components is working as expected 

#### Challenges in int tests
- Difficult to test all critical paths
- The test may fail, but is it because of the network error or code error ?
- Depending on uncontrollable factors, the test might fail. But if we re run it, everything passes 
- Include retries with exponential backoffs.... strategies to handle failures
- Requires time and commitment from multiple component owners....

### Performance / Load / Stress Testing

- Simulate a heavy load on a server, we have systems like facebook which have billions of users. 
- Some bugs will not manifest when the load reaches a certain threshold
- Can data base handle I/O ? JMeter or Rest Assured Framework is a good way to write load tests - we can also reuse it as a single user test as well 


### Rubber Ducky programming ?
After sometime when we aren't making progress, if nothing works, take a break - it usually helps. Explain your problem to the duck. While you are explaining it, the solution will click. 