Once we have code to bring up infra, we get the following advantages: 
1. Reproducibility
2. Serves as documentation

One change with cloud and micro services architecture was that infra became complex. 

Now when things run at a completely different scale, auto healing, pub sub, monitoring, logging, IaC helps us solve this problem. 

With the ticketing ways, it is a slow process working with an IT team. When people work on tickets they are tired, things can go wrong. 

This makes team self sufficient. If you want to scale up a database, just raise a PR for it. 

Applying best practices of software engineering to infrastructure. 

Through PRs we can first check if it works fine on a test environment and then apply it to production. 


### Goals
- Anyone can propose a change and it is upto reviewers to review and apply it to prod
- Make infa changes fairly quickly without waiting on other teams to do it for us
- Scaling up and scaling down is made as easy as raising a PR
- Immutable server deployments 

## Challenges
1. Tracking 100s and 100s of servers and managing them that spawn up based on code
2. Configuration drift - when something is fixed on a live server, but is not set in the code base - it is better not to manage these locally
3. We don't want servers to unique, we want it to be just like any other server
4. Fragile infrastructure

### Principles of IaC
1. Systems can be easily reproduced - they are disposable
2. Software should continue running even when servers disappear, appear or when they are resized
3. Handling changes gracefully which makes it easier to make improvements and fixes to running infra
4. Cattle not pets - treat your server like cattle and not pets. Don't name them, care for them, tend to them. etc etc.. they should be identical, replaceable, number them, when one fails, get another one
   Database servers are pets, stateless servers are cattle
5. Systems are consistent everytime we bring it up
6. Processes are Repeatable
7. Design is always changing